Key Elements of AI:

1. Machine Leaning: Learn from data and predict like human 
2. Anomaly Detection: Detect anomalies or things out of place like humans. 
3. Computer Vision: Able to see, recognize like human 
4. Natural Language Processing: Able to process written text, languages, infer contexts like a human. 
5. Conversational AI: Able to communicate or have conversations like a human with a human


What is a dataset?
A dataset is a logical grouping of units of data that are closely related or share the same data structure. There are publically available datasets that are used in ML, statistics, data analysis

Some Popular Datasets:

MNIST Dataset: 
A dataset that consists of hand-written numbers/digits. This dataset is used to train ML models/neural networks to identify human handwritten digits so systems could be used to translate them to digital numbers. These ML models using Computer Vision to identify human written digits.


COCO Dataset: (Common Objects in Context Dataset):
It is a popular dataset that contains images in the JSON format. It contains 330,000+ images, 1.5million+ object instances, approx 80 object categories, 4 captions per image, 90 stuff categories. It is mainly used for tasks like Object Detection, Image Segmentation, Image Captioning. 

What is Data Labelling: It is the process in which we add meaningful changes like bounding boxes and labels on the raw data(images, text files, videos) to provide meaningful context and guidance to the models that we wish to train using these daatasets

DONT GET CONFUSED: Whats happening?
Lets say we have structured data(as rows and columns). If we use Supervised Machine Learning Algorithm, we also provide output column. If we use Unsupervised Machine Learning Algorithm, we dont provide output column. 

SUPERVISED: Task Driven - needs to learn and do a specific prediction task 
UNSUPERVISED: Data Driven - exploratory & research driven in nature, finds patterns

Just like that when training models with image datasets, if using Supervised ML model, we provide bounding boxes and labels(equivalent of output column). If using Unsupervised ML model, we don't provide any labels.


Types of Supervised Learning Problems:
1. Classification 
2. Regression 

Types of Unsupervised Learning Problems:
1. Clustering 
2. Dimensionality Reduction
3. Association 

3rd type of problem: Reinforcement Learning: 
An AI Agent learns by interacting with an environment. The environment responds in 2 ways: Positive Feedback(rewards), Negative Feedback(penalties). The AI Agent repeatedly makes choices and moves, learns strategies from the positive and negative feedbacks and tries to maximize rewards and minimize penalties.

Ground Truth: In case of structured data: The output column. In case of unstructured data(images): Properly laballed and annotated images with bounding boxes that show what actual predictions should be like.

What is a Neural Network:
It is basically modeling how a human brain works. A network of nodes known as neurons that take as input data and process it to give an output. Neural Networks form an interconnected layer-wise network of neurons.
Each neuron takes input, applies a mathematical weight and bias, passes is through an Activation Function and sends the result forward. First layer receives raw inputs like images of dogs, cats. The hidden layers process and learn paterns. The final layer outputs predictions. 
There is concept called "Backpropagation" which is basically when there is a change in the direction of input/outputs. Outputs are sent as inputs to the earlier layers. This is done to adjust weights and is done to better understand complex patterns and relationships so that weights can be accordingly adjusted to minimize loss function

A Neural Network containing 3 or more hidden layers is considered a Deep Learning Model.

Loss Function: It tells us how far are the model's predictions from Ground Truth(Actual Output Data)

Activation Function: It is a function that applies transformations on the input data, helps neurons learn complex patterns better and passes the output to the next layer


What is GPU(Graphical Processing Unit): Is a physical processing unit which is designed to quickly process and render high resolution graphics of images and video frames concurrently. GPU can perform parallel computations on multiple sets of data so they are used for high volume data processing tasks, mathematical and scientific computations. GPUs are suited for Highly parallel and repetitive tasks such Renderring graphics, Cryptocurrency mining, Deep Learning and ML.
CPUs have a few processing cores which perform sequential computations of the data. GPUs on the other hand have thousands of smaller processing units or cores that have the ability to perform Complex Computations, process large volumnes of data, high resolution graphics, complex neural network processing tasks PARALLELY(Or Concurrently).

What is CUDA:
Context: So GPUs were made to only process high resolution graphics. But CUDA(Compute Unified Device Architecure) is a parallel computing programming model API developed by NVIDIA to enable GPU to be used beyond just the Graphics Processing tasks, to enable GPU to peform Highly complex mathematical and scientific computations, big data processing, deep learning. CUDA has many libraries which allow programmers to use their libraries to write code that speeds up computations of heavy matrix operations. In Short, CUDA allows a GPU to perform complex matrix calculations very effeciently and do other computational tasks beyond just the graphics processing.


NVIDIA Deep Learning SDK: NVIDIA Deep Learning SDK is a collection of tools, libraries, machine learning models, software provided by NVIDIA that enable developers to build, train, deploy machine learning models. It includes libraries like cuDNN, TensorRT, development tools like CUDA and NCCL that help with multi GPU scaling. In short it is a collection of tools that lets us harness or leverage GPU accelaration in every stage of ML model pipeline(Model Training to Real-Time-Inference)