AZURE MACHINE LEARNING SERVICE 

Azure Machine Learning Service is a service that simplifies the running of the AI/ML related workloads allows the developers to build flexible Automated Machine Learning Pipelines. Allows us to use languages like Python or R. Also allows developers to run Deep Learning workloads such as Tensorflow.

Azure Machine Learning Service allows us to create the code/text editor environment JUPYTER NOTEBOOKS allowing developers to build, document, test and share their model as a shareable ipynb file. 


AZURE MACHINE LEARNING SDK: 
It is an SDK which has been designed specifically to interact with Azure Machine Learning Service. 


MLOps:
It allows end-to-end automation of ML pipelines: CI/CD training, Inference

AZURE MACHINE LEARNING DESIGNER:
Basically a DRAG-AND-DROP Machine Learning model designer. It provides a Drag-and-Drop interface to visually built, test, and deploy machine learning models 


Data Labelling Service:
Essemble a team of humans to label your data.  


Responsible Machine Learning:
Models fairness through disparity metrics and mitigates unfairness 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

AZURE MACHINE LEARNING STUDIO:

Inside the Azure's ML studio interface we can see a bunch of different available options:

1. Author Section: Notebooks, Automated ML, Designer 
   Notebooks: Basically jupyter notebooks are a code editor/IDE to write python code to build, train, and deploy ML models 
   Automated ML: Uses a Completely Automated Process to build, train and deploy ML models. But works for only 3 types of models.
   Designer: Visual Drag-and-Drop model to design and construct end-to-end machine learning pipelines.


2. Assets Section:
   Datasets: Data that we upload which will be used for training 
   Experiments: When you run a training job, they are detailed here 
   Pipelines: ML workflows or pipelines we have built or we have used in the designer. 
   Models: A model registery containing trained models that can  be deployed 
   Endpoints: When we deploy a model, it is hosted on an accessible REST API Endpoint. (Basically an accessible url)


3. Manage Section:
   Compute: The underlying computing instances used for training, inference
   Environments: Python environments for Machine Learning Experiments 
   Datastores: A data repository where our dataset resides 
   Data Labelling: Human with ML-assisted labeling to label datasets for supervised machine learning model training 
   Linked Services: External services that we can connect to the workspace such as: Azure Synapse Analytics 